Okay my friends let us start this k means clustering implementation together.
All right.
So in the previous tutorial I think I asked you to try to implement the first phase on your own.
I'm talking of course about data processing which indeed seems to be very easy here because we only
have to import the libraries and the dataset and it is even easier because we have well our data processing
template.
So the only thing that we have to do is just to copy paste these first two cells here and then.
Well let's see what we have to change what we should change to prepare our K Means Algorithm.
All right.
So we're going to stop by importing the libraries.
That's inevitable.
We should use the three of these libraries.
Maybe not.
By but definitely Matlock plot lib and benders.
But anyway let's just import them all so that we can make sure we have everything.
And now let's import the data set and I'm going to copy that cell right here and paste it in a new code
cell right here.
All right great.
So now let's see what we have to change.
Well we don't have to change anything here because we anyway want to have these free libraries.
And now when importing the data set.
Well the first thing of course is to change the name of the data is it here.
That was the template name of the data set and we need to replace this now by the name of the datasets
which is I remind more on this core customers.
That's yes.
So let's do this now on the score customers that see as V.
And now that's when things start to get interesting.
What did you do with these two entities.
You know x the matrix of features and y the dependent variable vector.
Well let's start with the matrix of features the matrix of features.
Here takes exactly all the columns except the last one.
Remember what we did here with that trick to go from the range of 0 in 0 up to minus 1 and minus 1 is
excluded.
Therefore we exclude the last column.
But let's have a look at our dataset again and actually let's imported here in order to have a look
at it here in a notebook.
So right now it's connecting to runtime.
I'm going to show the data set in.
Well we'll see if we have to exclude that last column.
Right.
So there we go.
Let's upload it.
So as usual I put the machinery it is at folder on my desktop.
Make sure to have it.
You know you can download it in the previous tutorial in the article.
So we're gonna go this time into port for clustering.
Then Section 24 came into clustering my friends were making great progress.
That's great.
We're almost halfway there and then we're going to go to Python.
And finally we're going to select and open the mall.
Customers that see as we found.
All right.
And now let's double click it to have a look at it.
It's simpler if it is in our notebook.
All right.
So the question is do we need to change anything here when creating that matrix of features.
Well obviously as we explained in the intuition lecture and in the previous toil there is not a dependent
variable a primary when doing clustering and especially caymans.
So here the last column of this data set the spending score is not the dependent variable it is actually
a feature which we will use as part of the other features to identify some patterns in the data.
And these patterns I remind are actually clusters or segments of data which will be gathered by similarities.
All right.
So there was an essential thing to understand and therefore I hope you did not exclude the last column
here.
So the first thing we would do is to just remove this minus one in order to take.
Indeed all the columns.
All right.
So if you already did that I'm really proud of you.
You did an amazing job but now I want to improve this.
Actually let let's remember that the goal here is to as we said identify some patterns or clusters in
the data by using all of these features here.
But do you think that among these features some of them well won't actually help much identifying these
parents and well the answer to that question is of course the customer i.e. the customer right column
is just giving an idea to each of the customers and therefore has literally no impact on whatever dependent
variable we will create in the future because I remind that the process the Caymans algorithm is that
indeed it identifies some classes in the data but also technically it will create a new dependent variable
where the values will be actually the clusters themselves.
And therefore since the customer idea is just a sum identification of the customers well we know for
sure that it is totally irrelevant here.
So we can actually exclude this column.
All right.
So if you did this that's even better.
There was an even higher level of the solution for what I wanted you to do.
OK.
So now that being said what else can we do.
Well all the rest the jar the age the annual income and the spending score seem totally relevant in
order to identify some parents in the data.
And so now from that point I didn't expect you to do much more to solve this exercise except of course
the final modification will do for that row.
But we'll come to that later.
However now for the matrix of features you know the columns that I want to keep in order to identify
these parents will only be actually annual income and spending score and that's only for one particular
reason which is mainly for teaching purposes.
Well at the end you know at the end of this implementation I indeed want to visualize with you the clusters
you know the clusters identified by the Caymans algorithm.
But in order to visualize them well we actually need a two dimensional plot.
Right.
We need a two plot where on the x axis we will have one feature and on the y axis we'll have another
feature and therefore in order to visualize the clusters we exactly need two features.
Otherwise you know if we get for example three or four features it will be very hard to visualize the
clusters because well we need one axis per feature.
It would be kind of possible in three dimensions but we'll have a much nicer graph in 2D and therefore.
And once again that's not what I expect you to do.
We're only going to keep these two columns the annual income and the spending score to identify our
clusters.
And of course I made this dataset so that we can indeed find some very interesting clusters.
Furthermore which is trying to of course get some insights from their customers and therefore now the
exercise and you can press buzz on the video to complete it is to change something here in the matrix
of features X in order to select only the annual income and the spring score among the features you
know among the variables which we will use to identify the patterns.
So please press pause and I'll give you the solution in a few seconds all right great.
Let's do this together now.
So the exercise was to only select the annual income column and the spending Score Column in our matrix
of features x.
So let's do this.
And well this time since we're selecting you know two particular columns.
Well we won't use a range to do this.
There is actually a better method.
We will select these columns.
You know the indexes of these columns into a pair of square brackets.
And that's the other way to select some columns with you know this I look.
Function it is with this pair of square brackets inside which you can include the indexes of the columns
you want to select.
And so now the question is What are these indexes.
Well let's see.
Remember that index is in both and start from zero.
So customer idea here hasn't ISRO Joy has index 1.
Has index 2 annual income hasn't x3 and spending score has next 4.
And therefore here in this pair of square brackets.
Well we just have to input three and then come up and four you know in order to select several indexes
you have to separate them with a comma and that's it.
That's how you create this matrix of features selecting some specific columns with which you will learn
some patterns in the data to identify some clusters through the K Means Algorithm.
Great.
So now that's done for the matrix of features but we're not done for the whole therapy pricing phase
and I hope you did the last necessary thing to do here in order to complete this data processing phase.
So according to you what needed to be done here for this third row of important data sets you know for
this dependent variable.
Well I hope that you had the right reflex and that you very simply deleted this row because indeed as
we explained in the previous tutorial there is no dependent variable a primary.
You know before we created for the K Means algorithm it will come later when we train that came into
model on the data set.
All right.
And speaking of the set.
Well I just like to remind that we don't have to split the dataset into a training set Ed set because
having a training set and a test it implies having a dependent variable vector.
So actually here we're all done with the data repricing phase.
Congratulations.
So now we're going to run these two sales to make sure everything's OK.
Starting with this one empowering the libraries.
And now this one importing the data set and everything seems to be all good.
We can now move on to the next step which will be to use the elbow method to find the optimal number
of clusters because indeed this will be absolutely necessary when training the Caymans model on the
data set because when building the Caymans model we will have to specify.
Well that number of clusters we want to choose for k means and we will want to choose of course well
the optimal number of clusters and it is the Elbow Method that will exactly tell us what is that optimal
number.
All right.
So whenever you're ready for that next step you know to smash that Elbow Method.
Well join me in the next tutorial to implement this.
And until then enjoy machine learning.